I am the submitter of this recipe and I would like to clarify a few things about it. Do not drain the excess liquid in the lentils!!!  It is supposed to be like a soup.  Also, make sure your tomatillo is ripe or it will be sour!  If you follow these directions the recipe should turn out how its supposed to.

This is an unusual and interesting dish.  I used almost every part of the recipe exactly except Cotija (it's difficult to find in some places), substituting it for Pepper Jack.  I also added another cup of water during the final cookdown process (I found the initial mix didn't have enough liquid for a stew consistency).

A few final thoughts: the tomatillos provide a sour note that may not sit well for some alongside the starchy lentils.  If that's the case, use half a tomatillo.  Also, on second trials of this recipe I used a can of tomatoes with green chiles instead of a roma.  This is a quick substitute.  Finally, I'd be interested to see if anyone is brave enough to substitute black beans for lentils.

I only gave this a 4 star because I made too many substitutions.  However, even with the substitutions it was a tasty soup.  Will try to make it according to directions next time.  Tip: if the soup is too spicy add a milk product.  I liked it better spicy but added cheese to kind of sort of follow the recipe. Great job, a different kind of soup!

Loved this recipe. I made it vegan style. Used Soyrizo and when I added the cumin, I also added extra onion powder and smoked paprika for some kick. Topped it with Vegan cheese — didn’t even need sour cream. Kids devoured it.

I think you did a wonderful job on this recipe.  The oil and fat from bacon and chorizo were a great addition.  I charred everything up and blended it as directed.  my wife is from Mexico and told me this reminded her of food her mom made for her.  thank you for a new and great addition to my cooking arsenal

A very tasty and versatile recipe.

I made a vegetarian version w/ soyrizo and veggie bacon. It turned out great!

From the first time I made this recipe, it became a huge hit in my home. At home, we prefer it with "Soy Chorizo", from Trader Joe's, over regular chorizo. Their seasoning really puts this dish over the top. Enjoy!

This was very delicious and probably the best lentil dish I have had!  Thank you for sharing. I did a couple changes. I could not find the cheese so I opted for freshly shredded pepper jack. I also subbed the tomatillo for small can of green chillis. I didnt want to serve as a soup so I made rice and served it  with white rice, the lentil mixture and poured some of the juice before garnishing with cheese and sour cream. It was amazing!

I drained the lentils and reduced the liquid. I had a little too much bacon grease, so I drained all but about two tablespoons .  I served it with a runny fried egg on top for breakfast. Delicious!!
More stewlike than probably intended, but worked great as a breakfast dish. 
Next time I'll try it according to the recipe. Definitely a keeper recipe.

Delicious. Used a small tomato from my garden and added a little extra cumin. Definitely will make it again.

Pretty tasty! I used french lentils, 9 oz. tube of pork chorizo and extra thick hickory bacon. There was so much bacon grease in the pan that I ended up draining most of it out and left 1-2 tablespoons for sauteing the  veggies.  Tastes much better the second day when all the flavors have time to meld. Thanks for the recipe!

Came out delicious!! I sautéed red chili peppers, garlic, green onion, jalapenos, and our organic soyriso . Secret ingredient: garlic cilantro balsamic vinegar. When finished, poured into the soup and let it simmer on low for about half hour - it was amazing!!!

I have made this soup several times and will be making it again to take to a "food day" at work.  It is amazing and it has not failed to be a crowd pleaser.  It is difficult to get the cheese required here, so google said a good substitute is goat feta!  That's what I used and I loved it.  Love Goat Cheese and love Feta, so no problem with the substitution.

As written, it was pretty plain but I think it's going to improve as it sits. I meant to boil the lentils in broth instead of water and I forgot, that should help. I also wish there had been better measurements for the liquid - I think I put too much in which didn't help with the lack of flavor.

Excellent recipe, thanks!  I made a couple of very minor changes.  Cooked the lentils in homemade chicken broth, and added some carrots and mushrooms to the veggie mixture.  We used this to make burritos and tacos.

This is a great gluten-free, fiber-filled dish, as long as you don't use the chicken boullion! I also didn't use the bacon (forgot to thaw it) so I did need to add a bit of salt. Also threw in a jalapeño because I had it, and used queso fresco with crema supremo on top. Delish!

No, really it is that amazing!!!!! Simple with bold flavor and stinkin' delish! Thanks 'SB' as this is a new staple dish at our place.

My family loved this recipe!  I didn't used to be a lentil fan, but really enjoyed this.  The only changes I made was to use low sodium chicken broth instead of bullion and water. I also increased the cumin to half a teaspoon and added 1/4 teaspoon coriander.

I made a vegetarian version of this recipe and it turned out to be delicious! I used veggie bullion instead of chicken, veggie chorizo, left out the bacon completely (with a little extra olive oil to add some fat), and wasn't able to find a tomatillo, so I had to make due with fresh tomatillo salsa.  Nevertheless, even my carnivorous boyfriend ate it up! Thanks!

Even my picky husband took seconds of this dish. He doesn't like soup, so I made it much much thicker. I drained the lentils, but not before I used a little of that juice to purée the veggies. since I made it so thick, it would have been good on top of something else fresh tasting, but I don't know what. It was a great earthy taste followed by a bit of spice from the chorizo I used.

I really needed more specific instructions about the amount of water to cook with the lentils. Large pot to me, meant my dutch oven, which meant I probably had 3-4 cups too much water. I ended up with a pot of colored water, no taste.
I tried to cook the water down and my lentils disolved.
I ended up cooking more lentils to add to the pot, adding mixed vegies, a can of diced tomatoes, chicken soup base and some corn startch to thicken it.
this all could have been prevented with better directions in the first paragragh.

One of my alltime favorite recipes. I commented back on 2013 and I have made this recipe a dozen times a year. Its great for parties and potlucks. I leave out the bacon because it doesnt need it and I use soy chorizo. If vegetarians are eating with me i switch to veggie stock and up the cumin, works well. I have got to say, cotija and crema are critical to the flavor of  the dish. I serve those on the side on case someone cant have dairy; if you have to substitute use feta and sour cream. I serve cilantro on the side too. This recipe gets raves every time I make it.

It was simple, & fast! The only thing I did different was add some fresh diced serrano peppers for a little spice. We didn't puree them. Just added into our own individual bowls. gave it a little crunch as well.  We like our food with a little heat. Delicious.

Delicious, and my husband liked it. A little spicy from chorizo but not bad with the sour cream added.

Amazing!  I used the Rotel Lime and Cilantro tomatoes instead of the Roma and tomatilla as recommended by another cook, and chose not to blend the veggies.  The result was a very tasty stew that we will certainly make again :)

very good, very simple. i didnt have bacon on hand, and i have no idea how much chorizo i used, i just knew it needed to be used up before it expired. this is a recipe that could easily be tweaked in many ways and would still be delicious.

Yummy!  Doesn't need a thing changed

I couldn't believe how delicious this soup was.  I used all of the ingredients listed in the recipe (except for the cilantro, which my husband does not like), but my preparation method was a little different.  I cooked the vegetables with the chorizo and skipped pureeing them in the blender.  I also microwaved the bacon in layers of paper towels for five minutes, and then I combined everything into the lentil pot.   It tastes even better after sitting in the fridge over night.  I will definitely be adding this to my regular mean rotation.

